## How Do Quantum Computers Differ From Classical Computers?

Quantum Computers are wired differently. Specifically, operations that occur in a Quantum Computer must be reversible, meaning that computing the circuit in one direction with some given inputs X and obtaining outputs Y, computing in the opposite direction with Y as your inputs must yield X as your outputs. This creates a constraint: quantum circuits must have the same amount of inputs as they do outputs, even when you are given multiple inputs and wish to receive a single output. 

Quantum Computers may be thought of as Linear Algebra machines. Computationally, our state is represented via a vector known as “[the statevector](statevector.md).” Each quantum gate within the circuit is essentially a matrix that gets multiplied to our vector as the circuit progresses through its computation, similar to a Markov process. Once we reach the end of the circuit, we obtain a probability distribution from our statevector representing the likelihood of the qubits collapsing into those states. 

Often mentioned in discussions about Quantum Computing is the power to compute problems that would otherwise take millennia to solve on a classical computer. So how come we can simulate quantum circuits? As we established earlier, the state of our quantum circuit is described as a statevector, and computations are carried out through matrix multiplication. Specifically, the size of the statevector as well as the matrices needed to carry out the computations are of size `2^N`, where `N` is the number of qubits in our system. For example, if we have a 32-qubit quantum circuit, then we would need a statevector of size `4294967296`, whose memory impact would be: `sizeof(statevector)=232*sizeof(complex_number)`. For useful applications, we may need thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of qubits, which translates into `2^1000 ~= 10^301` states needing to be stored simultaneously if we were doing this on a classical machine. For reference, the known universe only has approximately `10^82` atoms, so this would be like storing `10^219` unique representations of the observed universe. 
